hyppo v0.1.0 Release Notes

.. contents::

hyppo 0.1.0 is the culmination of 8 months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and
better documentation. All users are encouraged to use this release instead
of the mgcpy, which this package is replacing, are a large number of
bug-fixes and optimizations.  Moreover, our development attention will now
shift to bug-fix releases on this branch, and on adding new features
on the development master branch.

Release highlights (as compared to mgcpy):

  - New time series and discriminability modules
  - More user-friendly implementation of *k*-Sample Testing

This release requires Python 3.5+.

New features
------------

Independence testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Tests have been given a unique class as compared to mgcpy. Parallelization
in this module makes tests faster and ``Hsic`` has been added as a standalone
test within this package (uses exact equivalence implementation).

*k*-sample testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*k*-Sample testing is now organized within a class that is modeled similarly to
how independence tests are run. More information about the specifics of how
this works can be found in the docs.

Time series
^^^^^^^^^^^
Time series based independence tests have been included as a separate module
from independence tests.

Simulations
^^^^^^^^^^^
Simulations have been included as a separate module and ``hyppo.sims`` now
includes k-sample simulations and time series simulations.

Discriminability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Discriminability has been included from the r-mgc package and has been changed
so it conforms to the ``hyppo`` API.

Benchmarks
^^^^^^^^^^
A benchmarks folder as been added that contains notebooks comparing
statistical power, algorithm wall times, and test statistics comparisons
between the algorithms and sometimes between the respective R implementations.
Many of those notebooks have been condensed into tutorials in the
documentation.

Other changes
-------------
API has been changed as compared to mgcpy and is modeled after scikit-learn
with the inclusion of the ``base.py`` containing an abstract class within each
module and energy with a ``.test`` method calculating test statistic in
p-value.

Authors
=======

This release contains work by the following people (contributed at least
one patch to this release, names in alphabetical order by last name):

* Jayanta Dey +
* Sambit Panda +

A total of 2 people contributed to this release.
People with a "+" by their names contributed a patch for the first time.
